{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Chapter One: Family History\
\
My grandparents were born in the 1890s or 1900s. We called mum's mother Nanny - that\'92s what we all called her and I\'92m Nanny now to my grandchildren. Her name was Minnie Tiner. She didn't have a second name either.. Her husband was called Earnest Thomas Tiner - I never actually met him. He was  injured in the First World War. He trained as a chef in Switzerland before that. During the war he was on a naval boat - before that he was in the Merchant Navy. \
\
During the war he was gassed or injected with something which made his arm go green. This is something my uncle told me, because he lived until he was 93. He only died a few years ago, whereas my mum died 20 years ago. So my grandfather survived the war, but it affected him, and he died when my mum was only 12. He died when he was about 45. They lived in Wellingborough in Hertfordshire. His sister married and moved to Guildford, just outside, in a village called Thursley. They had a chicken farm, and she thought it would be a good idea for her brother Earnest to come and live in the country for his health. So she found a house for him, and arranged for the family to come down. They moved into 7 Peterborough Road and rented it. But the war had affected his chest, and he died about two years after they moved to Guildford. My mum was only 12, my uncle was five years older, so he was just finishing school. \
\
My nanny went out to work and they sort of struggled through really. She was born and brought up around Harpenden. I remember her telling me on a Sunday, her grandma would come and get them in the horse and cart and take them out. There were no cars. Her family had a straw hat manufacturers. I guess a lot of people wore straw hats in the early 1900s. They played with a hoop and stick and she had one of those. She didn't really dwell a lot on the past because it was quite unhappy. Her husband and her were only married for a few years but she had all her family around her and she lived with my mum and dad for the rest of her life, which was quite a thing. I didn't appreciate it at the time until I got older, but when my mum met my dad, he took on Mum\'92s mother as well. They wanted to buy a house, but obviously they couldn't leave my mum's mother because she couldn't afford to live in the house by herself, so he bought the house they were living in and she stayed with them for the rest of her life. \
\
My mum\'92s name was Thelma Theresa Tiner Wales. Wales was my maiden name. Her brother went to work for a local engineering company, which was walking distance from our house. He used to walk past every day when I was little. He started there when he was 18, in the accounts department. He ran the company by the end and then took it on to bigger things. But he started at 18, working in the accounts department of Drummonds Engineering, which later became Stavely Brothers where my Uncle Ken became Managing Director.\
\
My mum was happy at school, she was quite good - she got a scholarship - but couldn't take the scholarship up because they didn't have enough money. So at 14, she went to work. She'd always liked dressmaking and fashion, so she went to work on Guildford High Street for a family-run business. It was an old fashioned department store called WH White and Co. She started as just a shop girl, but she progressed quite quickly and became a buyer. She later, for more money, moved to Harveys, also in the High Street.\
\
And there's some lovely pictures of her at the 100 year anniversary of White's. I've got some wonderful pictures of my mum all dressed up in their old fashioned costumes.\
\
Then she met my Dad, they were both in the Air Training Corps. The women ran the canteen, whereas my Dad was there learning to fly. Both of them were too young to be in the war. He became a draughtsman at Dennis Brothers, which is a big engineering company that's still in Guildford. They made all the red buses and all the fire engines - it was quite famous.\
\
My father was born in Guildford and had one sister and one brother. My granny was a stay-at-home mum. I\'92m not sure what my grandfather did. He was injured in the First World War as well. In one of the censuses that I've been looking at, it said he worked in a tannery.\
\
My dad's father was William Lovel Hamilton Wales, always called Lovel. And my grandma was Kathleen Amelia Tyreman. My granddad was born in Crondall, which is outside of Farnham, and all his family were in the army, mostly in the cavalry - his father, his brother and his great grandfather.\
\
My great grandfather and great, great grandfather were both in the black watch. I still don't really know what happened afterwards. I was told that his father Robert ran away from an apprenticeship. In 1870, you could be put in prison for that so he ran off to somewhere in Ireland and changed his name to Robert Hamilton Wales so he didn't lose his Hamilton - which was his surname. We think he might have taken his wife\'92s name - she was a Wales and he took her name but kept his name as well. That's why I've got Hamilton in my name too - the men's line always kept the Hamilton. \
\
After the army, my great grandfather Robert moved to Crondall. There are all kinds of stories about him - I don't know if they're true. He's meant to have played the bagpipes for Queen Victoria outside Balmoral. For some reason he moved near to Crondall where the military were based - so when he came out of the army he definitely built baskets for the military hot air balloons. \
\
My grandfather, Lovel, then went into the 3rd Hussars for the First World War and was in the cavalry. There's this quite famous chap we are close to - an American called Colonel Cody - Samuel Franklin Cody, and he actually was married to, or lived with, one of my granddad's cousins on his mother's side. Colonel Cody was one of the first people to fly in England. He was a bit of a cowboy, he rode horses and travelled in a circus, and came over here to England around the turn of the century. He was working for the Air Force, and it was just before the First World War, and he started building bi-planes. They were old-fashioned planes, more like kites, he built this new plane and was flying it, but it wasn't very safe. He did lots of things, he had the first woman that flew with him, who I think was his wife, and my granddad used to go and help him fly his planes. My granddad died when I was 12, so I don't really remember much more.  \
In 1913, he was unfortunately killed flying his bi-plane in Aldershot. There was a model of him in the science museum on a plane, and we used to joke to my dad that he looked like him. \
\
My granddad used to take us out on Sunday mornings, my brother and I. We can't have been that old. We\'92d sometimes go to Brookwood Cemetery - which is a big military cemetery. We used to play around and I realise now he was probably going to see people that had been in the war with him and had died. Other times he would take us along the Basingstoke Canal. We used to run across the locks which are not very wide - and we were only little. We\'92d run across and he'd be doing it as well. I can remember him hanging upside down in a monkey tree - he was a bit fun/crazy - and then my parents heard that he'd been letting us cross the locks and he got banned from taking us out by himself. \
\
He died when I was 12, I think he probably had cancer. We had a dog that we'd rescued, called Candy - she was a Labrador. He used to take her for a walk, or she used to take him for a walk, really. And I can remember one day, only a few weeks before he died, he'd been gone ages, it was a lovely day. And my Mum said, \'91I don't know where he is\'92. So we all went out to look for him. And there was my granddad, he was never fat anyway, but he\'92d got really skinny. And he was lying on the common in the sunshine fast asleep, with the dog lying right next to him looking after him. He'd been gone for about three hours. That's my lasting memory of my granddad. Which is a lovely one to have. \
\
Auntie Pat and Uncle Graham gave me a rabbit when I was five. Peter became a huge friend and when I had mumps very badly he was great company and \'91looked after\'92 me. My grandparents would always take care of him when we were away - they had an allotment and we'd go up there. It was a very traditional, old-fashioned sort of life that they led really. \
\
I've got one brother Jonathan who is younger than me. I had all my family all around me growing up. They all lived close by in the Guildford area. My mum's brother was walking distance. And my dad's sister lived in Guildford and my dad's brother lived in Godalming which is really nearby as well. On Sunday mornings, my dad used to take me and my brother out to see whoever - sometimes we\'92d go and see granny and grandad and we'd take them out (by the time we got a car). They loved flowers and gardening so we'd go to Wisley, which is the RHS. I can remember being so bored. \'91Oh God, they're talking about trees\'92. And I've now become one of those people. I think it's in the genes! \
\
I have a cousin Deb who is a year older than me. Her mum was very good with flowers as well,  they must have all been brought up on it. And that's what they would discuss. We\'92d go to my dad's brother, Graham who was 10 years younger. They didn't have any children to begin with. His wife was wonderful - I was quite arty as a child - and she was an artist. And she also had the same name as me, which seemed very special as well. We used to go and stay with them - they had this little toll house in the middle of nowhere and we'd go into the woods and dam streams. They used to let us do all kinds of things that parents don't. They had rabbits as well. I have some very happy memories of being there. They had children when I was probably about 14 so it wasn't quite so exciting.\
\
We had a very close road as well - quite a small road and of course in those days there weren't many cars so we'd play outside in the winter dancing around the lamppost which is right outside our house. I spent hours doing that - we'd all be out there dancing around the lamppost. My best friend lived next door to me, Andrea, I'm still friends with her now, and she had an older sister Jaqueline. And then I had another friend, Celia, they had a huge family. They were Catholic and they had six children, in a 3 bedroom house with their nanny as well! \
\
My brother had some friends, two Keiths, and we had Nigel who lived next door, then we had a bit of a strange guy at the end of the road - Alan. If we found a dead bird - he wanted to be a vicar - he insisted that we did a proper burial. So under his lilac tree, we used to dig some graves for any dead birds that we found, and he'd conduct a service. I always collected animals. I was always bringing injured animals back to the house to try to help them - even if they were butterflies. \
\
Then we got roller skates. And luckily the next road along had been tarmacked, so that was perfect for roller skating. We just made our own fun in those days - always all together. We made tents in the summer. I had a little garden which my dad made for me at the top. I don't know how old I was, probably about five, I can remember my granny, his mother, coming round with this pot for me with a double snowdrop in it. Whenever I see snowdrops now I think of that.\
\
Every Sunday we always had aunties and uncles for Sunday lunch - especially as they got older and some of them didn't have family or they'd lost their sons in the war so we'd nearly always have family round for lunch and tea. My dad would go and collect them, bring them back, and we\'92d have to be on best behaviour. It was lovely because I did see a lot of my relatives on my dad's side and, on my mum's side it was only through uncle Ken - my mum\'92s brother - not the more distant family. I can remember once this man came, Uncle Billy. He was a sailor in the merchant navy, and he'd come back from China, and he bought my mum this most magnificent pair of pyjamas. They were made in beautiful blue silk embroidered with dragons in a gorgeous box, and he stayed with us for about a week. He was unmarried, and it's only now I'm starting to look back on my history that I can see who Uncle Billy was, he was my mum's uncle. I didn't know that before, he was the brother of her father.\
\
My cousins and I were all very close, we all went to the same infant school. I had three boy cousins from my mum's side, and then three cousins on my dad's side - one was a girl who was a year older than me (Deb), and then the other two I didn't mix with quite so much, because Moira was eight years older and Murray was five years older, so they were a bit more grown up. So Deb and Pete were a year older than I was and we were the ones that were close. He always came to my parties. But we all mixed at Christmas. And we had neighbours next door Auntie Margaret and Uncle Douglas (not really family) who were like family as well with my friend Andrea. \
\
We also had an old couple who lived across the road, the Goodchips and Monty the dog. In the summer Mrs Goodchip, with Monty, would take us all up the Common where we played \'93He\'94 and made camps in trees and bushes. At Christmas, she would have us all round to her house for presents - and sherry for the grown ups!\
\
Christmas was an amazing time at our house. We always had three parties. I don't know how my mum did it, we would have a Christmas party on Christmas Day and we'd take it in turns, then there'd be another party on Boxing Day and then there'd be another party on New Year's Eve and it would rotate through right up until I was in my 20s. So boyfriends started to come and it would get larger with all these boyfriends and girlfriends joining in, and then more aunts and uncles would come. My mum would cook Christmas lunch, my nanny was still living with us so she would help and then if it was our turn in the evening she would do a party tea so it would be cold turkey and salads and we used to play the most wonderful games. \
\
I can remember having a sheet up with a little hole through and you had to put your nose through and guess whose nose it was and we had teams in charades and we were allowed to stay up until really late - often it would be two o 'clock in the morning. The adults would be in one room, we had two rooms, they\'92d stay drinking at the table and we would all go off and be playing games, but then we'd all play party games together in teams. We loved it because we could stay up late - you know it doesn't matter how tired you are as a child you just love staying up late. My uncle played bowls so we always had a bowls competition - but we played indoor bowls because it was winter. I was very close to my Aunt Cis who was my mum's dad's sister and she always came for Christmas. She was very much that sort of Edwardian-type lady. She absolutely loved bowling - proper bowls on a green. She had this big house but when she got older she moved into a small flat in Guildford and she was there for quite a long time - near the bowls club so she could walk there.\
\
I can remember when I got my pony, she was so delighted and she managed to get a whole bag of carrots. She was very grand and she used to give me precious things. She gave me a silver cup from her tea set and I've got this beautiful gold-coloured jewellery box that she gave me, which is very precious to me. There were things that had been hers that she gave away, which was lovely. Auntie Alice, who was my nanny's friend, usually joined us as well. She'd lost her fiance in the First World War, and never got married so she had no children. It was the three families - my next door neighbour Andrea, and my cousins with the three boys, Pete, Richard and John, and our family. We'd go on holidays together as well. In the summer we'd go on a couple of big picnics a year. It was always so much fun. We\'92d play non-stop cricket and it was great just being all together. Everybody would bring something and my dad had a primus stove and so he'd light it up and they'd be making cups of tea. We'd be in the middle of nowhere. On one picnic with my granny and grandad and my parents, there was this massive haystack in the field. There was a ladder there, so we were climbing up it, and it made a nice slope down so we were sliding down it. We shouldn't have been doing it. My brother went up, he was only about three or four. There was obviously a hole in the middle, and he fell down into it. Now, at the time, I didn't realise how dangerous it was because the whole lot could have collapsed on top of him. \
\
My dad was fairly tall. He probably held on to my granddad by the feet and they got my brother by the hand, and managed to pull him out. My brother could have been killed. We were having fun and then he suddenly just disappeared, I can remember it, and it made a huge impression on me. I could hear him saying, \'91I'm down here!\'92 They were sort of panicking, trying not to show it. So that was one of our picnics! That was just a grandparents picnic, not with all the others. \
\
My dad died when Keeley was a baby. So he's been dead for a long time. But he was a huge part of my life and great when he was alive and when I was younger. He worked for Denis\'92s, as an apprentice, he was in the drawing office. When he was there, he worked with one of his best friends Mike Hawthorne, who was a Formula One driver at the World Championship. So my dad used to go with his friend, Jack, who also worked there, to all the English races, nothing abroad. They hung out with him a lot when. But unfortunately, he was killed when he was twenty-nine racing along the Hogsback, which is a road just outside of Guildford. He turned his Jaguar over and was killed. He was going to be my brother's godfather. He was a bit of a ladies\'92 man. He was a typical Formula One driver in the fifties. And just went mad when he was driving. \
So my dad, when I was coming along, wanted to earn more money. So, he moved jobs - by that time he must have been qualified. He went to another company that was just outside of Guildford called Vokes. It was right in the country, and I spent some time there later on. It was a big old manor house and then they built the factories around the manor house and they had a social club there for the workers. The man that ran the club, the social club, got a pony and we used to be allowed to go over there and ride the pony and they had a swimming pool. He did really well there - he was the youngest ever director at 39 and he was destined to be their managing director when he was in his late forties. But they were taken over by a bigger company called Thomas Tilling, and so a lot of the other directors were actually made redundant, but my dad wasn't, and they actually kept him as a director. He had some different designs patented - filters is what he specialised in - and he had his filters on Concorde. \
\
In the end they bought their own man to be managing director. He got headhunted to be managing director of another filtration company, but it was in Cardiff. And at the time, both my brother and I had just left school, so he was 18, and I was 20, both living at home. My brother was doing accountancy exams, and he was the local accountant in Guildford. And, of course, we had all our friends, and we didn't want to move. I went with mum and dad to look at houses up in Cardiff, and we could have got a spectacular place with land for horses and everything. \
\
So, they said \'91we'll buy a house in Cardiff and we'll buy a flat in Guildford, so you and Jonathan can stay here\'92. I guess they didn't really discuss it much more with us, but I think they decided in the end that though it was a great job they'd stay in Guildford. It wasn't worth being that far away from everybody, and I think that's just they put the family first. We still had a lot of old aunts and uncles, and we were very close families so he said no. \
\
He was the only director left from the original directors and they made him redundant. Which actually was quite nice because I didn't see a huge amount of him, but at that time my mum was working part-time and he'd come over and spend time with Nick and myself and we'd go out together. I actually had some good quality time with him for about six weeks because then he got another job with another filtration company down in Portsmouth. \
\
He went to America in 1959 which was quite a thing. I think America must have opened in 1959 because Andy\'92s dad also went there at the same time, they didn't know each other. My dad went for a month and stayed for three. I was only five, so I hadn't yet started school. I might have been four and a half. Jonathan was only two and a half and I remember going to meet him at Heathrow with the chauffeur from the company and I got a Harold the Hare comic which had a balloon in it. The chauffeur blew up the balloon and I let go of it and it just sort of floated off never to be seen again. Him being away was hard for us and hard on my mum too. We went up to Harpenden to visit my nanny's brother, and she was still with us. And I can just remember this huge slide in the park opposite them and being so envious that they had this park. We didn't have a slide like that in Guildford.\
\
My early school life was happy - my best friend Andrea had started a year before me. I didn\'92t go to nursery or anything - just started school at 5. We lived about a mile and three quarters from school. I used to walk every day. I\'92d walk with Andrea and Jacqueline - who was five years older. And she had a friend at the end of the road who was the same age as her. The four of us would walk to school together in all weathers. We had one main road to cross, but there was a lollipop man on the road there. There was a little sweet shop just up from school called Lewis's, which was a traditional sweet shop and we could take our pennies in and get four different chews for an old penny. That was a highlight. If you'd got some pocket money that someone had given you, you could go into Lewis's. It was a really old couple that owned it. It was a really old-fashioned shop - even for the 1950s. But he knew all the children and it was just lovely. \
\
I do remember my first day at school. We had to stand in a line to go into assembly. And one of the boys didn't like that I was first. I don't remember why I was first, but I was, and he wanted to be first. So he punched me on the nose and made my nose bleed. I had to go to the matron. I must have cried, but I don't remember. And the trouble was that the next day I had another nose bleed because I think it had upset all my nose and something happened. His name was Peter something and he kept cropping up through the rest of my life. One of my really good friends actually went out with him, but I could never bring myself to like him. It bled again the next day and I had to go to the matron again. So that was my first day at school. \
\
I was quite slow at reading. Once you got through all the Janet and John books, you were allowed to go to the headmistress's study which had the library in. I chose my first book there - Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. I bought that book afterwards and it is the most wonderful book. To me the pictures in it were amazing. My grandchildren had to have this story now as it was my first book. \
\
I went up to the junior school which was attached and then went on to the senior school where I met my best friend at school Julie -  my memories are all pretty normal and happy. I couldn't be in the netball team because I wasn't tall enough for netball. I was a goal shooter which was a disaster because people used to just put their hand over me so I couldn't shoot. I wasn't very sporty but by that time I was riding so that didn't really bother me that much. It was an all-girls school and, in my last year, I was made Vice Head Girl which was quite a thing because I wasn't in the grammar stream class I was in the one below that. They'd only ever had grammar school stream girls as head girl and vice head girls. So I broke the mould! I don't know why they chose me but they did. That was very good for me. I'd had a pony for a few years by then, and it was the beginning of me becoming a more outgoing person.\
\
Holidays\
\
When I was at school, I went on a cruise, a school cruise, which they did for a few years. The SS Navassa was quite an adventure because I was 14. My friend, next door Andrea, she'd already been on one the year before. You couldn't go until you were 14. And she came on the next one with me, although we were different years, but we were together. \
\
We only had five from our year. We set off from Southampton and mum and dad came down and waved us off, and off we went. I was being seasick by the time we got past the Isle of Wight, because I'm not very good on the sea. I didn't realise how bad I was. Anyway, we proceeded to go into a force nine gale, and I thought I was going to die. I was so seasick for three days. And gradually, everybody went down with it. Some people I still remember from the cruise. Sarah Doddman, Hilary Beatson, she was meant to be my partner, we were paired up and she went off and left me when I was sick, but Sarah didn't, she looked after me. \
\
We were meant to have lessons on this ship - it was a special ship for taking students on a cruise abroad. And we were doing the Knights of St. John, which was interesting, but we weren't even allowed on deck because the waves were coming over the top. All I can remember is just lying anywhere I could upstairs. And then they stopped us from going up there. By that time, everyone was sick, and it went on for three days. And then gradually, when we got into the Med,  it calmed. I had some Jaffa cakes with me. And I hadn't eaten anything the whole time. They were pleading with people to come and eat. But my first thing was a Jaffa cake. And it was perfect. That night, we came into the med, and it was a beautiful evening. We sat on deck, and two of the boys had guitars. And they sang and we all sang. And that was the beginning of the cruise for me, three days, just being with everybody. And we're all lying on the deck because everybody had been in the same boat. \
\
We went the next morning to Ceuta, off the Spanish part of Tunisia. We'd been made to put our dresses down - at the time miniskirts were in. The teachers took us off and there were all these hawkers trying to sell their wares to us. There was this castle, and they said, right, we're going to go up and see what's at the castle. We started walking. It was quite warm, but it wasn't too hot. Suddenly we had about 40 men around us because women weren't allowed out in those days there. And they were trying to separate us. And the teachers, who were all women, were saying, \'91Keep up girls!\'92 and more and more men were just surrounding us and following us. \
\
We marched up this hill and when we got to the top, it was an army barracks, not a castle! So, we had to turn around. By this time, there were even more men. Andrea, my friend, she was a year older, and she was very attractive, and they were zooming in on her. So, I hit one of them, because he was touching her. I said, \'91Get away!\'92 I was quite feisty. I was protecting my friend. \
And then they did, and we just marched down as quickly as we could and got back on the boat. When we got back on the boat, they'd realised what a disaster it was. They said, \'91Right girls, we're going to Malta next, but we've arranged for you to be with Reigate Grammar School boys\'92. We were thrilled! We had groups of five boys with us and they were older and had to look after us. I don't think the boys from the grammar school were particularly impressed.\
\
We had a great time. We met them in Malta, I can't remember their names, but they were lovely. We had two days there, two and a half days. We went round, followed the Knights of St. John, and learned the history. But then we had an afternoon by ourselves. So, we were let loose with the boys, which was all kinds of fun. The boat was moored right on the harbour, and it looked quite impressive. We got a horse and carriage one night because we were a bit late and we came tearing up. And then they were stuck with us for the rest of the cruise. \
\
We went on to Beirut, just before there started to be trouble there. At the time it was very wealthy on one side, and it had casinos and beautiful beaches. But then we went out one day to a place called Byblos, which was an old Roman ruin and we had a police escort, because we're all on coaches. I was totally naive, but I guess there'd been a bit of trouble. I'd never seen poverty before. I'd seen poor places in England, but not where people lived in corrugated iron boxes. There was a big shanty town outside of Beirut, but they all had television aerials. And then the next day, we did the same, but we went further, we went to Baalbek, which was up in the mountains, which was fantastic. An amazing place.\
\
We had discos on the boat and things like that. Then we went to Rhodes, where we were meant to have a regatta. But it was still too rough. We were a bit unlucky, really, but had a great time in Rhodes. We went to Lindos and climbed up all these steps to see another ruin, and then we went on to Venice. I had two days in Venice, I think that's it. And the boys got stuck with us again, because it was deemed to be pretty safe in Venice, so we could walk around. They'd got used to us by that time. Sometimes they'd slope off. But I can remember going up the bell tower in Venice and there were these Americans up there and we were chatting. And we said, \'91Oh, we're here on a school cruise\'92. And they said, \'91School cruise?!\'92 Our boat was moored just down from the bell tower in Venice, and we said, \'91That's our boat there.\'92 We flew back from Venice. So that was my adventure, which was amazing. I wrote my mum a letter when I was seasick. And another when we moored at Ceuta, and she got them on the same day. \
\
When I was about eight or nine, we went on holiday to Bournemouth, and it rained the whole week. My dad said, \'91Right next year, we're going abroad\'92. That would have been in 1963, 64. It was before all the package deals and we went from Lydd Airport, in the south of England. We went on an aeroplane with the car - the front of the aeroplane opened, and our car was driven on. There were about four cars on each plane. It was my first time flying.\
\
And then, risky considering I also got travel sick and so did my brother, we proceeded to drive all the way through France down to Spain, stopping off in fantastic places. It was three nights going down and across the Pyrenees. I'd never been in the mountains before, and I think we took the windy route. My brother and I had bowls in the back and just lay down the whole way. We didn't really appreciate it at all, and we got to one part, and they were still living in caves with doors! There was a little petrol station we stopped at. It was a Sunday morning, and they were coming out from church. It was quite a small village, with very old-fashioned pumps. We had seatbelts in the front of our car. And I don't think they'd ever seen seatbelts before because they surrounded our car peering in at us like it was really odd.\
\
I don\'92t think many people took the route we were on. We stopped at another little village for the night. It was a B&B and we got there quite late, it was beginning to get dark. It didn't have a door on the loo upstairs. It had a big Buddha on the fireplace in the bedroom. And my mum said, \'91I can't sleep with that looking at me\'92. So, she turned it around. There was no air conditioning or anything like that. And we were seated to eat in a bay window, and everybody came along to look at us \'96 we were on display. People coming along for their evening stroll, having a look and checking us out. \
\
And then we did get to Spain, and we had our first holiday, which was marvellous. And after that, we took that trip a few times - down to Spain in the car. And then the last time we went further south, we went down to Benidorm. It was before it was big, it was still not more than a fishing village. After that, we started flying. And those were the end of our road trip days. \
We got lost in Paris once on the way back. My dad, he travelled quite a bit with work in Europe and worldwide later on, but he knew quite a few people in France, and they booked him his hotel. We were in our car in the middle of Paris and ended up going the wrong way up a one-way street. A gendarme waved us down and said to my dad, \'91Where are you going? Where are you trying to find?\'92 He stood on the car sill with the driver side door open and guided us to our hotel waving the traffic out of our way!\
 \
We went to Barcelona in the car too and parked right at the bottom of the Basilica de la Sagrada Familia - the unfinished Cathedral. You could never do that now. They were quite brave really, when I think about it, my mum and dad. We had some great holidays after that, but going in the car was pretty special, especially through France, some of the places we visited. If you saw another English car, you always waved or tooted, and we had these little AA sheets of directions which they produced instead of just having a map. The garages in France used to have stamps, children\'92s stamps. You'd have a little book and when you stopped for petrol, they gave you these special stamps that you could collect, which was great when you think about it, it was really good fun. \
\
\
Chapter Two: Riding\
\
I did ballet as a child but didn't really enjoy it. I heard my friend Celia across the road was going riding, and I loved all animals - I still do - so I said \'91Oh, I'd much rather do that than ballet!\'92 I went along to the same riding school which was walking distance. And I fell in love the first time I went.\
\
I rode a little white Welsh pony called Petite. It was Gravettes Lane Riding School, which wasn't all that grand, but it was nice. My brother started a few weeks after me, riding Martini. We had lessons together every week. Even my cousin Pete came down and learned to ride with us. And then as we progressed, we\'92d go out over the common for an hour or two. After about a year, Miss Lewis - who ran the stables and was a bit of a dragon - said I could come and work there. You didn't get paid for it, but you got some free rides if you were lucky. \
\
So, at age 11, I went to work at the stables. I'd be down there at eight o'clock in the morning, and often didn't finish until five, six o'clock at night. I\'92d take my sandwiches and go on my bike. It was about a mile and a half away. There were other girls there too. There was another girl from school, Christine, and two others that I'd met, and a head groom. Miss Lewis used to slope off somewhere and we would catch the horses, groom them, feed them, clean all their tack and look after them all day. It was slave labour, but it was absolutely wonderful. If the beginners needed help, we\'92d hold the reins. We'd go running around with the horses while they trotted. That\'92s why I've got such awful hands because my hands were always in cold water. On a Sunday night we used to ride the ponies bareback. Only a few of them stayed at the stables. They had fields a few miles away so we would ride them back to the fields which were two or three miles away and then Miss Lewis would come and pick us up in the Land Rover.\
We'd go across the commons and there'd be ditches to jump and occasionally someone would fall off. I nearly got strangled once because my hood on my anorak hooked on a tree and the pony walked off. Luckily Christine realised what was happening, it was choking me, so she got off her horse. If I'd been by myself, I don't know what would have happened because the pony just walked off and I was left hanging on the branch. \
\
All kinds of things used to happen on our way home. My dad used to get very cross with Miss Lewis, because we weren't that old and sometimes, in the winter, she didn't always come and pick us up straight away so we'd start walking. He would come looking for us and cram us all in his car and say \'91You're not doing that anymore\'92 but I just loved it so much. There would probably be about seven or eight of us sometimes. I looked after a pony called Suntan. He was beautiful and I loved him very much. But I came down one day and he'd gone. She'd sold him! I was heartbroken. He was a Welsh pony, chestnut with a beautiful white mane and tail and a blaze. It was a shame because my parents were just thinking about buying me a pony. \
\
Conker, who ended up being my pony, arrived to replace Suntan. I didn't like Conker very much at first because I blamed him for Suntan going. But it didn't last for more than about 30 minutes because he was a real sweetie. He was a new forest pony. He had a new forest brand on him. He was a bit livelier than Suntan had been, although slightly older. I rode him for about six months, and we were coming up to Christmas and out of the blue my mum and dad said \'91Would you like Conker? Would you like him for Christmas?\'92 They paid 120 guineas for him - which was quite a lot in those days. That included all his tack, his saddle and his bridle. I'd just ridden him back to the field in Wood Street, which wasn't that far. My dad said, \'91I've been round to see Mr. Roker and he said you can keep Conker there\'92. So, I had to ride him back. It was nearly dark by the time I got back, and he was calling the other horses in the field. I was so excited I had my own pony trotting along the road. We got him back to the field and it was full of strange horses. They decide who's going to be boss - and he was quite a boss type horse \'96 and they\'92re fighting and tearing around the field together. He settled down there and that was the beginning of Conker. He probably wasn't the ideal pony for me to have at that time but I loved him so much.\
\
I got to know the other people who owned horses there and about six months later, I went down to the field, and he wasn't there. It was a Sunday morning. I walked all around the field - the other ponies were there - and got to the allotment which bordered it and they'd taken the fence down the day before. He'd gone through the allotment and out the other side, onto the road - which luckily was just a housing estate. I went through the allotment and there was a milkman there. I said \'91my pony's gone! You haven't seen a pony, have you?\'92 He said, \'91oh yeah there's one about half a mile down the road tied up.\'92 It wasn't so busy in those days, but it was the main road to Aldershot with a little grass verge. I ran all the way home and I got my dad, and we found him tied up looking very sorry for himself. My dad rang the police to say what we'd done, and we got a court summons. We got done for him being on the highway. We had to go to court, and we got fined five shillings.\
\
I joined the pony club the following winter, so I'd had Conker for about a year. It was on Sunday mornings, and they were practising for the Prince Philip Cup - the Mounted Games which used to finish at the Horse of the Year show. I was in the B team with the people that couldn't do very much, the A team was all the people who\'92d been riding since they were three and had their own ponies. Mr Roker who was the trainer of the pony club said \'91if you can jump on whilst he's trotting, you're good enough to go up to the A team. So, always determined, I practised a lot and learnt to jump on at a canter. \
\
I joined the A Team and they were a bit off at first, some of them a bit snooty. We were all practising for the Prince Philip Cup. They did accept me very quickly, and they were all lovely really. There were about 10 of us practising and they only needed five for the team, with a sixth as a sub. The ponies that were good tended to be small, and Conker was 13\'922 which is quite big.\
\
I didn't think I'd get into the team, but I became quite good, and I got in. We had all different size horses. One was on a 14\'922, one was 12\'922 and the rest were 13\'922. We all had quite big ponies really. We practised and practised, and it was all great fun. When the spring came, we went down to Butlins at Bogner - they had this special event there for the Prince Philip Cup, which was hugely exciting. We all went in a great big lorry. There were loads of people watching - I suppose they put it on for the people staying in the camp.\
\
We did really well - we got delusions of grandeur then thinking \'91oh if we can win at the Surrey Show, we might get to the Horse of the Year show at Wembley.\'92 My best friend by that time was Christine Roker who was also on the team - and so we practised and practised but we failed! We were absolutely hopeless. We got to the Surrey Show, and I think nerves took over. There was a huge crowd and Conker reared up. I didn't fall off but that gave us a slow start. I jumped on all right but then everything went wrong so that was that. We couldn\'92t do it the next year as we were all too old.\
\
I moved Conker up to the Roker\'92s actual farm and Christine and I used to go out riding together. There was a crowd of us with horses and we used to have so much fun. We used to play hide and seek on the ponies, and go out for hours having adventures during the summer holidays. We\'92d pack lunches and off we\'92d go. Our parents never saw us. It was an amazing time. They had a quite big farm and they were very generous to me. We didn't have a horse box so we\'92d go in hers and that meant that I could go to shows a bit further afield.\
\
I entered him in the Best Kept Pony once at Tongham Show. He\'92d had a bath for that. He was looking splendid. He was a bay, so he had a lovely conker-coloured coat and a really shiny black mane and tail, a blaze and black legs. He'd been polished the day before and been kept in overnight. It had been raining. The quickest way to get there was along bridle paths but they were muddy, so we set off, but I didn't really want his tail to get dirty. So, my mum held his tail when we were going through the mud. Then my dad would be waiting in the car to pick her up at the end of the path. I won the competition! I did lots of shows with Christine and her dad. We decided to do a Midnight Steeplechase at their farm. It was probably the 70s by then, and my brother was training to be an accountant. They built this course of straw bales, and we all dressed up. It was held at night, and we put lights up. I had this negligee on over my riding things with a long hair piece over my hat. I made a pair of pyjamas for Conker. We didn't do very well going over the jumps. You all had a name and people bet on you. It was really good fun. It lasted a few years. \
\
I started doing Hunter Trials when I was about 16. Christine had got a new horse by this time, but we couldn't afford two horses. Conker was quite small for Hunter Trials, so it was keep Conker or get rid of him and have another horse. So I rode Conker. We went to Tweseldown - a race course in Aldershot where they have the Hunter Trials. It\'92s quite big because it's been built for army horses. Often we were competing against them. By this time, everyone was wearing proper skull caps with silks on. My granny came to watch me and said, \'91If you get round, I'll buy you one of those hats\'92. Of course I was determined. So off we went, full pelt. The jumps were quite big but we got round! I didn't win, but I was up there, against 16\'922 army horses. There were all these different jumps - ones with sticks you had to jump through, another with water. Some of the army horses were refusing it and throwing their riders off. Sometimes I did fall off and once we hit a tree. I did spend a few evenings in A&E. \
\
We did quite a few Hunter Trials,  once one at Tweseldown  I was against Princess Anne. I did better than she did. She had some lovely horses but Little Conker beat her great big horse which was amazing. He was such a sweetie. I can remember once, the French doors were open and suddenly there was this \'91clonk clonk\'92 and there he was standing in the lounge. He had this lovely way with him. Another time my mum had made some fairy cakes and he came in and he got a mouthful of fairy cake. He was wonderful with our dog - they were great friends. Candy would just lie with him in the garden, or she would be right under his feet, and he would take her ear and hold it between his lips. Candy always came with me to feed him. I'd come down after school and he would either be waiting at the gate for me or as soon as he saw me would run across the field. \
He was such a friend. I used to spend hours with him. We moved him to Bramley in the winter which was closer. Christine lived in Worplesdon which was about 20 minutes to drive - quite a way really to go and feed him. So for a couple of years in the winter we kept him with some donkeys  with someone my dad knew, which was good but it wasn't a very big field. \
\
I heard that there was a lion being kept locally in someone\'92s garden. I was out on a ride, and I heard it roar. I'd gone a long way, and I suddenly realised I didn't know where I was. Conker knew that I didn't know where I was - he just sensed it. It was in the winter, and it was beginning to get dark. I knew that once I got off the common, I had about an hour\'92s hack to get home. You can go for miles without seeing a road there. We were galloping up and down paths - he knew that I was worried - and there's this lion roaring. Luckily, I found this road - I didn't know where I was but decided that I'd go right \'96 and luckily it was the right way, It was dark by the time I got home. I had no lights or anything. That was quite scary - when you get lost, and you don't know where you are. These days you'd have your phone but then you just had to remember where you were riding. We had a few adventures Conker and I! \
\
We found an advert in the paper for a field near to home and so I went along to see it - it was just about a mile or so from us and it seemed too good to be true. It was called Grafham Farm. They had a lot of thoroughbreds there. The guy that was there, Steve, was eventing and doing dressage. He looked after all the horses and rode them. The people that owned the farm, Mr. and Mrs. Phillips, were from a very wealthy American family. She was an American publisher, and he was a lawyer to the stars and he just loved horses though I never saw him ride. She had two children who weren't interested, so he had all these horses and Steve rode them for him. So Conker went to live there and it was beautiful. I ended up going out with Steve for about a year. By this time, I was 20 because he came to my 21st birthday. I think he thought that we were going to get married. But I didn't think that, and things weren\'92t right, so I finished with him. I don't think anybody had ever finished with him before. He was a few years older than me. And he didn't like it. After a while things got back to normal and he seemed fine. I used to try and not be there too much when he was there, but we seem to be getting on all right. About two months after we'd finished, I was at work and he rang up and said, \'91I've just been down to the field and Conker's not there\'92. \
\
I said, \'91What do you mean Conker's not there?!\'92 He said, \'91I've had a bit of a look around - he's not in the field. The gate's still shut\'92. It was funny, he was in a field right at the back of the farm with a long driveway. So, my dad left work, came and got me \'96 I was in such a state, and we started searching for him. It was odd because the lock was still on the gate. We called the police. They weren't really interested. They just took the details. Mr Roker was great. He said to my dad \'91Steve knows some dodgy guy. I just wonder if he's arranged this.\'92 \
\
Five ponies had gone that night \'96 four from  another field. There were thoroughbreds in the same field, Conker was the only pony, and they were all easy to catch. It didn't really add up. I was absolutely devastated. There were quite a few horse sales at the time. My dad and Mr Roker went round to them, but they didn\'92t find anything. We kept going to all the sales for years and years. And anywhere I went, I'd look in the fields to see if I could see him. So, that was at the end of Conker. I was twenty-one. I carried on riding with Christine - she had a couple more horses. But it was never the same. Really, I would have been better on a bigger horse competing, but it wasn't the same riding a bigger horse that wasn\'92t Conker. \
\
Chapter Three: Meeting Andy\
\
I met Andy at work, so I remember his first day. I worked in Lloyd's bank in Guildford. Andy was engaged before me; I knew him when he got engaged. I never knew his fianc\'e9e. I can remember congratulating him. And then it broke off. She lived in Barbados. I wasn't really interested in him at the time because he had a fianc\'e9e. \
\
I started in the bank when I was 16. I went to a secondary modern school, which only went up to 16. I wasn't A-level material really, I was much more interested in art. I wanted to be a children's book artist, but I can remember the careers person coming round saying, \'91what do you want to do?\'92 and I said, \'91I'd like to illustrate children's books\'92 and they looked at me and said \'91Oh no you can't do that, you have to be really good to be able to do that.\'92 That's what it was like in the 70s. You had to be either a secretary, work in a bank, as a nurse or a teacher, those were the options. \
\
At school we went to the bank for the day, there was a Barclays bank which had a training centre, and I did enjoy that. My dad was friends with the bank manager through work because they all banked with Lloyd's. It was a big branch, with 118 staff. He said \'91There's always a job here at the bank if she'd like one.\'92 So, I went in and met Mr. Luce, and he said, \'91When can you start?\'92 So, I came back from holiday on Saturday, and started work on Monday. And that was my start at the bank. We had an Executive and Trustee department that had another 50 people and we were all in the same building - a very old building in Guildford High Street, which was a lot of fun actually. You start right at the bottom. First I did the post. Then I just progressed and I was on the counter and I did foreign, which was all very interesting. I was very good at getting money back from return checks. I don't really know why I was good at that, but I just chatted with them and that was a successful way of getting money out of people. \
\
I can remember Andy coming. He'd been at the Lloyds Training Centre at Hindhead as an instructor. He came in in a three-piece suit - this was very Andy in the \'9170s - a three-piece suit with a tie and matching handkerchief. He came in and I thought, \'91oh, he looks all right\'92. \
Andy went out for lunch with this guy Paul on his first day with Carol and Annie \'96 the two girls everyone fancied. So we\'92d get all the goss when they came back. He knew I had a boyfriend. I don't think I ever met his girlfriend. He'd met her at the training centre. I was then upstairs in Securities. It was Annie's leaving do at the pub - it was a very friendly branch, a lot of us in our 20s. They were sort of teasing Andy a bit, because I had no boyfriend at that time. I was playing Space Invaders with Andy. I could see there was a bit of nudge, nudge, wink, wink going on. We were getting on fine. Yes, he was chatting me up. And then one of the other guys, Dave Johnson, said, \'91Should we go back to my flat?\'92 So about 10 of us went back to his flat after the pub closed. There was a Clint Eastwood film on, Play Misty For Me. I love that film. The soundtrack has' The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face\'92 by Roberta Flack. It was a Friday evening, and we were all watching the film. Afterwards Andy said, \'91I'll give you a lift home\'92 because I didn't have a car with me, which was totally in the opposite direction to where he lived. And that was it. We started going out.\
\
We went out only a few times and then I was going into hospital to have all my wisdom teeth out. I had all four out in one go and I found out that I was allergic to anaesthetic. I was only meant to be in and out, maybe an overnight stay, but I was in at least two days. I was terribly sick. I was lying on the ward with the curtains all around me feeling dreadful because I'd been sick all afternoon. I had my hair tied back in a bandage. I heard these footsteps, and I thought, \'91Oh, goodness, it's Andy.\'92 I was coming in and out of consciousness. The nurse came in and said \'91You've got a visitor!\'92 Even though it wasn\'92t visiting hours, they let him see me and in he came with a bunch of red tulips and a book - Jonathan Livingston Seagull. I was thinking \'91Oh my God he'll never want to see me again!\'92 I couldn't really speak because it was all dribbly. It was awful.\
\
I was off work for another week and then Andy came around to see me. I still had all the stitches in my mouth. He didn't have much money at the time because he'd just bought a flat. It was a Saturday night and he said, \'91I'm taking you out for dinner\'92. I couldn't eat anything because I couldn't chew but I didn't like to say. He took me to the most expensive restaurant in Chobham. All I could manage was smoked salmon. \
\
We were working together, and I got moved near to where he was, which is the last thing you want, because it's nice to have a bit of space. We\'92d just started going out, that was in January. In the summer I went away with my parents for a week's holiday in Scotland. It was a few weeks after that I think  that we both decided that maybe there was a bit more to this. We went away for a whole week and we just travelled, staying in different B&Bs. We went to Andy\'92s old boarding school in Somerset Wellington and we went down to Cornwall to Loe. We used to have a big department store in Guildford called Harvey's and they\'92d do a Christmas evening with fashion shows. There was a cookery demonstration going on and they were using this big new pan. I can remember Andy saying, \'91We'll have to get one of those when we get married\'92. Now he'd never mentioned marriage at all up until then. You could almost say it was a proposal. \
\
He went off on a course for a few weeks, and he came back the day before Christmas Eve. We'd already decided that I was going to stay with him because we wanted to be together on Christmas morning and then we were both coming back to my parents. I wanted a real Christmas tree so we spent all afternoon driving around and in the end we got one, which wasn't very big as it was the last one, and it only had half the needles on it. We took it back to his flat and I bought some decorations, and it looked beautiful. And then it wasn't until after Christmas - about the 27th - he came over, I was back with my parents by that time which is where I lived until I got married. We went to the pub, and we were just sitting there having a drink and he said, \'91Should we get married then?\'92 And that was it - nothing very romantic - I said \'91Oh yes all right!\'92 He said \'91Well I\'92d better ask your dad\'85\'92 but my dad was in bed with the flu. We got back and my parents were waiting - they knew something was going to happen. He went upstairs to talk to my dad and then came down again smiling and my mum had got glasses out and some champagne.  \
\
On our wedding day, we had a marquee in the garden. It was just a daytime do. We got married in Bramley Church, with a horse and carriage, which my mum arranged. We had about 120 guests which were mainly family. We both have quite large families on both sides. Mum and Dad got the garden looking spectacular and we had a three-course meal and a cake which a friend had made. And then we went away like you did in those days. They did your car up with all the tins and shaving foam and we drove off down the road at the end of the afternoon. We went back to our house to drop our car off and we were flying out the next morning to Corfu for our honeymoon. My brother came over to take us to the airport. We had a two week honeymoon, which was beautiful, nice weather. The only thing is we had wasps when we arrived because it was September. There were hundreds of wasps!\
\
We got married, and I carried on working. We had a very senior manager at Guilford and Andy was his assistant. I sat across from him doing cheque cards, so I used to answer his phone all day if he wasn't there. It was awful to come back after your honeymoon and you're face to face with your husband 24 hours a day. Really not ideal, but it only lasted for about a month and then Andy got moved to the regional office.\
\
By that time, I was twenty-eight. We'd been married about a year and a half. The bank wanted to promote me yet again and I didn't really want to be promoted. In those days, if you had a baby, most people left work and brought your family up. I said to Andy, \'91I think we should have a baby\'92. And he said, \'91all right!\'92 - of course I fell pregnant the first time we tried. You had to do a test in the morning and then you had to wait half an hour. I couldn't sleep all night. I was pretty sure I was pregnant, and I felt a bit different. I was in the bathroom in the morning at about five, I weed on the stick and then we both sat there looking at it. And of course, it was positive! I was so excited. But then I had to go to work and tell the manager that I was pregnant. There were quite a few of us that had started work together and there'd been four other girls pregnant in the six weeks before me, all five of us got pregnant together. I had to leave work when I was seven months. They kept your job open for you, but only in case something went wrong. I was never expected to go back to work. I had Nick and didn't go back. \
\
Nick arrived on the day he was due. I woke up in the morning and Andy brought me a cup of tea in bed and my waters broke. I rang the hospital, because that's what you had to do in those days. They said they thought it was my hind waters and not to come in yet as I had ages to go. \
By about 11, something was definitely happening. I rang the hospital again. And they said, \'91you better come in and we\'92ll check you out.\'92 After the examination it was decided that I had to stay in. It was a Thursday, and I was supposed to be going food shopping with my mum. The hospital said, \'91You're not going to have this baby for another three days. But now your hind waters have gone, you need to stay in hospital\'92. It was an old workhouse hospital. They put me in this ward, which was horrible. I was at the end where everybody was being pushed through to have their babies. I had this poor girl next to me who was only young, and she'd got problems. I learnt a lot in the few hours I was in hospital. Social services had been around because her boyfriend beat her up and she was pregnant, she didn't have anywhere to go. I was getting more and more depressed. Andy could only come in at visiting times. They said \'91You're going to be here for the weekend - you're not having it today so just relax.\'92 \
\
I said to Andy \'91We haven't got any food - can you go off to Sainsbury's?\'92 I made him a list and off he went. Sure enough as soon as he'd gone I went into labour. They said \'91no you've got hours yet you're fine\'92. He came back about five and was allowed to sit with me for a bit, and then they moved me into a room. It took ages. I was quite tired because by that time I'd been in hospital all day and it had been quite draining. Andy saw Nick at 11:30 that evening, he said \'91I can see his head!\'92, but I was exhausted by that time and they said I was going to need forceps so I had to wait for a doctor. They put this wet towel on my forehead. I said \'91Don't do that! It makes my hair go frizzy! That's the last thing I want on my forehead!\'92 \
\
Nick was born at 12.31am but not until the second of December (he had been due on the first). He was a lovely little baby. He was so sweet. He had blonde hair, blue eyes, and a tan because he had jaundice. I can't say I fell in love with him straight away, but soon after. Nick had bad jaundice and had to go in an incubator and then he wouldn't feed and was losing weight. I was in the hospital for nearly eight days. I was struggling so much with breastfeeding - it wasn't natural to me at all. You could have visitors for an hour in the afternoon and my mum would come and then fathers were only allowed to come in the evening so Andy would come for an hour then. I just wanted to go home so much. Another mother said to me: \'91You ought to try some bottle feeding as well because you're never going to get out of here.\'92 Once that started, I was out the next day.\
\
Skiing\
\
We bought the house in April before we were married - it was a terraced house. We met our neighbours, Colin and Sarah, Sarah worked for BA as a stewardess and Colin was a pilot. They've been our great friends ever since - we've had lots of adventures with them on holidays, and our children are very similar ages.\
\
I was a keen skier, and I persuaded them and another couple that we should go skiing. We booked to go to S\'f6ll in Austria where I'd been before, but then Sarah fell pregnant so she couldn't ski. She was only five months - she just had a small bump - and she used to come on the ski slope and watch us. We all carried on skiing together until our children were born. And then we took our first holiday with the kids when Keeley was five and Nick was seven or eight. They did some ski lessons before we went and we all went to Niederau Austria which was fantastic. I\'92ve got very happy memories of that holiday and that was the beginning of the children all skiing.\
\
Colin was a pilot, so they used to go to more exciting places sometimes, but we tried to go every year. They have always been close family friends \'96 the children all grew up together. That was how skiing started - although I'd been skiing before I met Andy,  I used to go on holiday in the winter with Christine to Mallorca or Ibiza for a week, and then she said, \'91Should we go skiing?\'92 And I said, \'91Oh, that sounds quite fun!\'92 We booked to go to S\'f6ll in Austria and had loads of snow right at the beginning of January. You don't always get snow when you're meant to. I fell in love with skiing and of course fell in love with my ski instructor, you can't go skiing and not fall in love with your ski instructor. Luckily, he had a friend. We had a great week! I stayed in contact with Pete - he was Canadian \'96 a bit crazy really. He was never really a boyfriend - we were friends more than anything. He came over to England for a bit. He's an architect now in Toronto. The next year one of the girls from work, Carol and I decided to go skiing together and had an amazing time! We got on really well. I had a year off as no one was able to come and then the following year, another friend of Carol's, Jenny, decided to come with me. She was a bit of a man-eater and would often disappear. She met someone and I didn\'92t really see her for the rest of the holiday \'96 which was fine \'96 I met people from the ski group and was quite happy. Then I had a long-term boyfriend, so I took him skiing the year after. \
\
After Nick was born, I'd given up work. I was a stay-at-home mum, and all my friends were too. There's just over a two-year gap between Nick and Keeley, and by the time I had Keeley, things were beginning to change. Some mums were beginning to go back to work. But all my friends had stopped working, which was lovely because I'd meet up a few afternoons a week with different friends, or a group of friends from antenatal class. We\'92d plonk our babies down in the centre of the room and have tea and cake and we were all in it together. There was always someone around or someone would invite you round. Whereas now you have to start thinking about sending them to nursery. Mine didn\'92t go to nursery until they were age 2  and then just for two mornings a week 9-12 which was more of a disturbance than a help. We lived in our first house for four years, Nick was born there, and he was probably about a year and a half when Andy got moved to Farnham for his first manager's job, which is only about eight miles away from Guildford. \
\
The bank used to move you in those days. They would pay all your costs. Technically, we probably could have lived where we were, but we wanted to move up another rung on the housing ladder. You had to move to within two miles of the branch, so we found a house in North Farnham, which the customers were all shocked at, that we were living in North Farnham and not South Farnham. Everybody who was anybody lived in South Farnham, North Farnham was nearer to Aldershot, which was military. Although it was a very nice new estate that we lived on, they were horrified that we were moving there because he was a manager. It was his first manager's job, and it was quite a big branch. It had two senior managers and two junior managers. Luckily the other junior manager came just after Andy, and he moved to our estate as well. So that made it slightly better. \
\
Before Andy became a bank manager, he did a course, and I had to go to the bank training centre with him for the day. In the old days you were taken to make sure you were suitable to be a bank manager's wife. The wives went for the day and had a meal  and chatted to the instructors and other wives to make sure they were suitable. It wasn't like that when I went, but you were still being  quietly assessed \'96 and I made sure I had the right outfit on. They were very nice when I went, but only about four years earlier than that, it was to give the wife the once over to make sure that she was bank manager\'92s wife material. I met some of the other managers' wives. Andy then became a junior manager with Adrian Ford at Farnham. \
\
Once we'd moved in, I was determined to do the garden, and as soon as it was done, we decided to have another baby. Luckily, I fell pregnant the first time again, so that was that. Nick was two by that time. We decided we\'92d go to Aldershot hospital, which was a military hospital. My friend had her baby there. They did a lot more checks because it was military. \
\
On the day Keely was born, it was Easter and we'd been over at my mum\'92s for Easter Sunday and I'd eaten far too much. We'd had turkey and then my mum always made tea and trifle. I was pretty big, and we'd been for a walk. I wanted to see this film on television, so we put Nick to bed, and I sat there and said to Andy, \'91I just don't feel comfortable\'92. I had no pains, nothing. I went to the toilet, and I thought, I can feel something. I think I can feel the head. I started getting a few pains about half an hour later, so I rang the hospital, and they said \'91You're way off having the baby yet. Keep us informed\'92. All our neighbours were away because it was easter. I rang my mum because they were going to look after Nick and she said, \'91Oh, dad's just taken the dog out.\'92\
\
About 20 minutes later, the pain suddenly started getting really strong. So we rang the hospital who said, you better come in. My mum said, \'91We're coming as soon as we can\'92. But they were a good half an hour\'92s drive away. I was hanging on and hanging on by this time, I was basically on the floor. Mum and dad arrived, and Nick was sleeping through all this. So, we quickly got into the car, it was about 10 o'clock by that time. It was only about 10 minutes at that time of night to Aldershot hospital. And in those days, because of the IRA, you weren't allowed to park the car out the front of the hospital. Andy dropped me off and they got me a wheelchair. And I didn't know, but my dad had followed us because when he'd seen me, he thought I was about to have the baby.\
\
I couldn't sit down. I had to lie on the back seat to get there because I was about to give birth. My dad was worried that I was going to give birth in the middle of nowhere. This nurse came and Andy said, \'91Are you alright? Because I've got to move the car\'92. The nurse said, \'91We can hold on for a few minutes.\'92 And I was thinking, \'91I don't know if I can hold on for a few minutes!\'92 He had to go off and park the car. The nurse ran me a bath. She was quite a big nurse. She had very hairy arms and I remember her so clearly. She said, \'91Right, we're going to do this.\'92 And, I virtually had Keeley within about half an hour of arriving. So different from Nick. I only had gas and air - I didn't have anything else. Andy was there beside me. At one point I said, \'91I can't do it!\'92  She slapped me on the arm and said, \'91Of course you can.\'92 Keeley was born and she was smaller than Nick. She was two weeks early. She just popped out a bit too quickly. I was meant to be panting, I think, but she was out. She was scrawnier than Nick. She came out crying - always loud Keeley. And that was it. My parents were wondering what had happened. Andy got back by two o'clock in the morning. They thought it had been a false alarm, and he said, \'91No, you've got a granddaughter.\'92\
\
Keeley had an infection on her neck, which was a bit sore, and they were taking swabs from it. She had to have some antibiotics, but she was all right. I remember sitting down for lunch and a baby started crying. I knew who it was straightaway. She cried loads - she sounded like a cat. I was just in there one night before coming home. \
\
Keeley was born in March, and it was a few days before Christmas, it was a Sunday and we'd had my cousin over with his children to exchange Christmas presents. I was cooking dinner and the phone went. It was my brother, and he said \'91Dad's had a heart attack, they rushed him to hospital - I'm over with mum now. We're just going to the hospital, but don't come. We'll let you know what's happening.\'92 That was a terrible time in my life. I couldn't breathe because of the shock of it all.\
\
I'd been with him the day before. Andy used to play and referee rugby, so I'd been over with my parents. We'd been collecting some little fir cones near to where they lived which dad, and I were making different things from. He was very arty. And he was climbing a tree. I remember saying to him, \'91Just be careful. Don't fall out of the tree\'92. The next day., he had a massive heart attack. They went out for drinks in the morning, and he was putting the Christmas lights up on the tree and he died. It was a horrible time, because it was Christmas as well.\
\
Keeley was nine months old. She doesn't remember him at all. Nick remembered him for a bit. He'd just had his third birthday. He remembered him for about six months, but he remembers him by photographs, really. It was such a shock for my mum and for all of us. Mum came to live with us over Christmas and then Andy got offered another promotion. \
\
He used to get promotions about every two years. He said, \'91I don't think I should take this one because we can't move away from where we are\'92. We had a four bedroomed house, and we wanted to have a spare bedroom so that my mum could come and stay with us whenever she wanted. But the job was another step up, so I encouraged him to do it. It was training assistant  managers to be managers, and he started straight away. We started looking for houses in Kingswood, outside London. But we couldn't really afford a four bedroomed house in that area. \
\
The bank was quite good and said you can move near to the A3 which is awful now but at the time it meant he could get into work fairly quickly. So we moved to Burpham. A house came up near our friends Colin and Sarah, so we lived around the corner from them. We lived there for four years.\
\
I remember Andy coming home and saying \'91I can't do this job.\'92 It was an awful time because my dad had just died, it had only been a few weeks since we'd had the funeral, and I was struggling a bit. He\'92d come home and be up working till four in the morning and then he had to be up and off by seven. I said, \'91Of course you can do it - you know it's just different\'92. Sure enough he could do it and he got through it, and the next time he went to bed at one o'clock. By the time three months was up he could do it with his eyes closed. He was there for two years at the training centre.\
\
We found a new nursery for Nick in a little village called Shere which was lovely. When it was time Nick started school. My cousin had children of a similar age, and her boys went to a private school, so we went to look at it, and of course there were only about 12 in the class. We decided to send Nick there which was a bit of a struggle, but we could just manage it, and so Nick started at Cranmore, which was a boy\'92s school. Keeley by that time was at the Montessori in Shere which was a great little school in a village hall with a little garden. It's where the film \'91The Holiday\'92 was filmed - it\'92s beautiful. We could feed the ducks when we came out of the nursery - it\'92s a lovely little place. Keeley followed Nick\'92s footsteps into private school. She was very different from Nick - much more outgoing - she went to a lovely little school as well. She went to Grove House and was very happy there. \
\
We decided to get a dog, and I wanted a Labrador. A friend at school said, we've just got these eight puppies \'96 they were Springer Spaniel Border Collie cross. I really wanted a Labrador because we'd always had Labradors at home. But we went to the farm and this little puppy, six weeks old, came up and looked at me and I thought, \'91Oh, I'm going to have to have you.\'92 I took the children back to see and they were all excited and they wanted him. In fact, they chose him, but he chose them really. \
\
So, we got Sam, and he was the best dog ever - very lively because of the Springer Spaniel. I used to walk him, and I took him in the car with me to school. He lived till he was 15 but even when he was deaf, he knew if I was going to school, he would not be left out. He'd jump in and sit there. The children loved him, he was a great dog. Andy had been moved again to be manager of the Kingston branch which had had a special inspection - which is not a good thing. He brought it up to the top in the region in two years which is very like Andy. We wanted to move because by this time the A3 was busy, and you could hear it. We had sold our house and had to live with my mum for a month and then The cottage came up, two doors across from my old family home. We fell in love with the garden. And we\'92re still here.\
\
\
Chapter Four: Isle of Man Adventure\
\
Andy was due for another move, and they wanted to send him to Guernsey. He was doing two years in each place, sometimes a little longer. He came back one day and he said, \'91Erm\'85 it's not Guernsey, it's going to be the Isle of Man\'92. And I thought, \'91Oh, right, that's sort of north and in the middle of the Irish Sea, not quite Guernsey, nice bit of sun, not far off France..\'92. That was on a Tuesday. The following weekend, we all went to the Isle of Man, the children as well. And it must have been early summer, about June. We flew out there, and it all looked very gray. \
Both Nick and Keely were so happy at school. And I had a wonderful life. I\'92d got a little job by that time. I worked for a girlfriend who did wine accessories. She sold them in a catalog, but she also dealt with Bentalls and we  did a few wine related shows a year. It suited me really well, it worked around the children and I used to take the dog in with me. I enjoyed doing that. But that was the end of that. The job Andy was taking was so good so we went. We decided to rent out the cottage and rent over there. We'd done so much to the garden - and it's a magical garden - we get deer, badgers, squirrels, occasional rabbits, birds, ducks, swans, geese, pheasants. We've always loved it. But there wasn't that much to rent in the Isle of Man. There's a lot of history there - they were actually invaded by the Vikings.. \
\
The kids were 10 and 12 and had to change schools. They were quite excited about it. They ended up going to King Williams College which was a private school beside the airport runway and the sea. It\'92s a really old building with crenelated walls like a castle and turrets. It had children from all over the place because it was a tax haven so you got some Russians, South Africans, people from all over. \
Everything was always moving, people coming and going - plus you had the people that lived there and had been born there. We were called \'91comeovers\'92. Andy started the following week. By that time it was July and the children finished school. We decided to stay as long as we could so we left at the end of August. Andy just flew home each weekend.\
The day we moved, we cleaned all the house, the removal men came and moved everything else. But of course it took way longer than we thought. We should have got cleaners in but we didn\'92t. We were meant to leave late afternoon, but we didn't actually leave until about seven o'clock at night. So we set off in the evening, before mobile phones. We were going on the ferry from Liverpool. Luckily we were stopping halfway in Stratford-upon-Avon, but I got lost. We should have put Nick in the car with me, which is what we did when we came back. But I had the dog and the hamster and the pot plant and some other bits. And Andy had the two children and off they went. I wasn't used to driving all over the country. He was. I got on the M25 and then the M40 and I thought, I know that I'm going to Stratford-upon-Avon, but I don't know which junction to come off. It was about nine o'clock at night by that time and it was getting darker. \
We'd got separated of course and I didn\'92t even know which hotel we were staying at. That's how crazy it was. I did come off in the end and he found me. We got there and then the next day, set off for Liverpool to get the ferry. There were all these bikers. We didn't know it was the Manx Grand Prix, which is for motor bikes. They do the TT in May, but this Manx one was almost as big, so there were bikers everywhere. Our removal van couldn't get on the boat, it had to go on one of the cargo ships that go over taking provisions. \
So we moved into the house which was in Douglas and settled in. Andy started work the next day, his number two and his wife came round which was really nice and a few days later Andy went off for a trip because he was based in the Isle of Man but he was in charge of everything except for Europe. He did South Africa, the Far East, New Zealand, Australia. He went off to visit all these offices: Dubai, Cape Town, Wellington, Miami. He went off for about two weeks and left me. I didn't know a soul except for Janet who'd come round. They started school about two days later. I had the dog and was trying to find somewhere to walk him - it wasn\'92t that easy. You find yourself walking down a road next to fields. I'd go into Douglas and there was a beach if the tide was out. I asked around and was told about these glens which were these little waterfalls that came out by the sea. So I started walking in the glens but Sam was used to much longer walks. So one Saturday, when Andy was still away, I got a book with a map of the Isle of Man in it and decided to try Laxey with the kids. It wasn't busy over there. Sam just thought it was wonderful, and he shot off, over a bridge over the water. As he went over the bridge, he slipped and fell down into the water, hitting a rock as well. My heart broke, we were running after him. He dropped down about 12 feet. It had been raining. So the water was really fast but he'd managed to scramble onto a rock. I couldn't get down the side because it was too far. The children were panicking a bit. I was panicking a bit too. We tried a few things but couldn't do anything. I said, \'91I can't leave Sam because he would panic if I went. You both go into the village and see if you can find someone that can ring somebody for some help.\'92 So off they ran. Then I was worried about them. \
It was a strange place and I was so worried about Sam. They came back with a man who was lovely. He was the chemist, Steve Roden. He tried a few things and said, \'91There's nothing for it. I'm going to go in.\'92 He went down the stream. It was like a small river, really, and it had all these rocks in it. He waded in his shoes and suit and managed to get Sam. He was well over six foot tall and quite strong. He lifted him above his head. And I got him by his collar and dragged him up. Then poor Steve, he couldn't get up. He had to walk all the way back down in the water. \
Two days later it was out in the press, they got a picture of the children with the dog and there was a whole bit about Steve Roden who I didn't know at the time was an MHK - a member of parliament. He went on to be the Chief Minister! We went round to say thanks with some whiskey and paid for his dry cleaning. I don't think we bought him new shoes though! We never forgot it. He became quite a good friend. \
I got told about Langness which was right by the children\'92s school. I started walking out to the lighthouse there. It was an amazing place because if it was sunny there'd be so many different seabirds and seals would come out to sunbathe. Occasionally you saw dolphins and even basking sharks. If it was a nice day I'd be down there for about two and a half hours. In the winter I didn't dare go near the lighthouse because the wind would get so rough it just used to take me. \
One day I met these two ladies with their dogs and got chatting to them. Erica, the younger of the two, was an interior designer who\'92d married a farmer on the Isle of Man. She had known what it was like coming over. I didn't like the house we were living in very much, a place in Douglas surrounded by houses. She said, \'91Simon Riggle has been doing up his family house. I'll speak to him.\'92 \
So we rocked up on Saturday morning. He was a commercial banker in London, and it was his family home. It had been in the family for 300 years and had 300 acres of land. His mother had already moved out. It had been empty for eight years, so the rats had moved in. There's stories of him riding his horse up the stairs, and dinner parties when the plaster would drop off the ceiling into your soup. They were a crazy sort of family. \
Dizzy, his mother, was in her late 70s.  She knew everyone on the Isle of Man. She ran the Stud farm and knew everybody. Her husband had died about eight years earlier. Simon had then inherited the whole Estate which was in disrepair. He then inherited some money from another distant part of the family in Scotland and decided to do the house up. That had happened before we came along and it was just being finished when we met. It was a big house with about nine or ten bedrooms. It had what they called the Doll's House attached to it which had been a little house for the children to play in but it was two stories. There was a lodge house that went over the driveway and we moved in there for three or four months whilst they finished the house. \
The main house was just like the Addams family. The door was huge - it must have been 300 years old with a huge key. The garden had obviously been spectacular. It had statues - but they had lost their heads. It had an old duck pond with no ducks and a gardener who cut the grass. It was quite a strange garden. The house was split into two, with a friend of Simons Richard, a London lawyer, living in the smaller half during the week.  We moved into the lodge and I started cleaning the main house. There was a ghost that came with it. A nanny spurned in love. She'd scratched her initials on the window. The builders were terrified and they were big men. One day I was cleaning all the old furniture, working away quietly. They didn\'92t know I was there, heard me and were spooked, thinking I was the ghost! It had been a monastery before, going back to the 1100s, so it was one of the oldest houses on the Isle of Man. It was like a stately home for want of a better word so people would come and have a look at it. There was meant to be an underground passage up to another big house, but I never found that. \
We had a new kitchen which was nice, with a big AGA and some lovely fireplaces. We had seagrass laid down, with nice rugs and beautiful curtains all made in London. Our hallway was magnificent. The hunt used to meet in the grounds, so it had this huge great fireplace with a leather fender where you could have imagined them putting their boots on. And a  great big staircase with a gallery all around. We did have their pictures up - some of them were a bit spooky. \
They had a tiger skin  which Dizzy's husband had shot in India. When we moved in he was on the wall above the stairs and I had to learn to love him. I called him Charlie. The floor in the hall was magnificent but very tired. It was early Victorian tiles and had been covered by a carpet, which the workmen pulled up. It was a huge area and once I'd polished it, a deep red, black and cream pattern came up. It was a fantastic floor. Simon came over a couple of weeks after I'd done it, and was so pleased with me. I got so many brownie points! They\'92d bring people in to see my floor. I spent days scrubbing it. \
We had this huge, great first Christmas there with a gigantic Christmas tree. I had to go out and find so many baubles! We had a party that Christmas with bank people and friends  that we'd made which was fantastic. We had it catered for  and had a fantastic band. We'd only been there about three or four months by that time. It was that sort of house where grand balls would have happened. There was an old ballroom and the doors opened up. \
We were there for nearly three years. Dizzy would bring her friends in without warning. I'd be upstairs and hear the front door open and they'd say, \'91Oh, Tricia, it's all right. I'm just bringing them to see your floor.\'92 Sometimes strangers would walk in because no one locked their doors and they\'92d be looking for Dizzy but she lived in the groom\'92s cottage at the stables. \
It was a fantastic place - we were really lucky. It had three stories - the top story was the servants quarters. If you went into some of the attics there were treasures. We found a suit of armour in there - not a pretend suit but one someone had used. There was this first world war uniform but it was all mothy. They didn't look after anything and everything was shoved in here and there. I found some Victorian dressing up clothes which had been beautiful but they had moth in them too. We had this bishop's chair - it was very intricate like a throne and it opened up and inside were all these hats from their ancestors - probably 19th century army hats, polo hats, all kinds of strange different hats. Visitors would come and we'd go and get the hats out. \
It was crazy really what it was like there. Such an adventure. Keeley slept up in one of the rooms at the top in the servants quarters. We had a family room up there too with a computer and couch and a TV. She had her hamster in her bedroom and woke up one night and said \'91Mum, there was a mouse in the hamster's cage\'92. I said \'91You must have dreamt it\'92. I went up the next night and sure enough there was a mouse in the hamster's cage eating its food. I had to get nasty mouse traps and actually kill them. There must have been some rats too. They didn't call them rats in the Isle of Man, they called them long tails. \
One day, Richard, who lived in the other part of the house came in shouting \'91There's a fire, there's a fire!\'92 He was sleeping in this huge old feather bed. He'd put an electric blanket on it and it had caught fire. I called the fire brigade and got the children and the dog. Then Keeley and Nick ran up to get the hamster. We had a fire extinguisher in the kitchen. Richard had been using his extinguisher and Andy went up with ours. There was all this black smoke. I was shouting \'91Come down! I've called the fire brigade.\'92 It was quite scary. It was all made of wood. If it had got up there, it would have been destroyed. Two or three fire engines arrived and the fire chief. It was hugely exciting because when the call came through and it was Great Meadow, everybody wanted to go because they wanted to see what the house was like. They came pretty quickly and put it out. Andy and Richard had managed to keep it from spreading. They reckon they stopped the whole house from going up by using the extinguishers. Suddenly they opened the windows and threw the feather mattress out. We all stepped back and the air was filled with thousands of white feathers. We made the top story on Manx radio the next morning so when I took the children to school everyone was asking if we were OK.\
Keeley got her own pony when we first moved to the Isle of Man which was a little bit early because she was only 10. Dizzy had a pony there that had been her grandchildren's and she claimed she was perfect. She wasn't actually because she was really difficult to catch. She was alright in the winter when she wanted to be fed but in the summer we used to have to get her into the corner, then she'd just give up. Her name was Pollyanna and she had a foal called Harebell.\
Polly was a good little pony. She was a 12\'942. We had 300 acres that she could ride over but there wasn't all the riding country we had when I was growing up. Dizzy knew the governor's wife Lady Daunt so she would come down. It'd be me and my jeans and a jumper riding and she would always come in an immaculate tweed jacket like she did at the hunt. She used to ride Harebell who was a bit bigger than Polly. She was about 13\'942. Her name was Tricia too - Tricia Daunt. We\'92d go riding and there'd be the chauffeur sometimes.  We got on really well. We got invited to a few things because of her. \
They made a film on the Isle of Man - Waking Ned with James Nesbitt. The  premiere was held in The Nunnery where we were invited and all  the Cast and film crew came. A really great evening. We had lots of films being made there. Babe was shot on the Isle of Man. Treasure Island. We watched Treasure Island being made because that was made just down the road from where we lived, so it must have been the summer holidays. There were lots of balls and a lot of fundraising which I got invited to. I'd only been on the island about a week and Keeley went to a birthday party. One of the mums realised I was new and invited me to a Ladies Lunch. We did have ladies that lunched and I got invited along - it was a good way of meeting people. One new friend had a lunch - it wasn't just the ladies this time - it was a charity event and who should be there but Norman Wisdom. He was about 80. He drove a sports car. They sat me next to him - a nightmare! He just played around the whole time and I'd only been there about five weeks so I didn't know many people. He was taking his peas off his plate and putting them on my plate. I blush very easily and I blushed even easier in those days. I sat next to him for hours and the more I reacted the more he played up. We had a raffle because it was raising money and I won it. He presented the prize and he got hold of me and swung me back right and kissed me. I was mortified. \
We got invited to lots of events. The bank were making a lot of money at the time and  supported lots of things. They actually supported the TT - we had our own team. I've never been into motorbikes before. People would come over from England and we'd have a stand of our own and we'd meet the team. We weren't that good at the TT actually. Though the driver was very good and looked like the milky bar kid. He had blonde hair and little glasses. \
Andy went out on a bike with the architect of Lloyd's Bank. He was a bike rider and came over for Mad Sunday when anybody can ride on the TT course. He took Andy and I really didn't want him to go. They went really early and it was all right. We did that for about three years. We were on the Isle of Man for four years and three years of those, we had our own team. Because of what Andy was doing, we got invited to loads of different places, which was amazing. \
We went to Venice one year with all the other bosses. We stayed in fantastic places that I'd never stayed in before. We had our own private viewing of the lights going on in the Basilica. We went to a castle in Ireland - Dromoland Castle. There were always these different things which the bosses would be invited to. There was always a big dinner at the end or dance. \
There was a lot of entertaining in the Isle of Man and lots of people came over. I did have quite a selection of ball gowns and dresses. I love dressing up. It was an expat type of life. Andy was meant to go for two years and then they wanted him to stay. So we stayed for four. Then some other bank wanted him. And I said, \'91I'd rather go back now\'92. Nick was 16 and had just done his GCSEs. Keeley was 14 and just about to start hers. And I said, shall we go back? And it was either go back or stay forever, really. The kids were quite happy to leave. It's quite small and even though they were happy there, they were happy to come back. Keeley had remained friends with some of the girls from the school but Nick didn't. I don't think boys do so much. \
Something Nick did while we were in the Isle of Man was a world challenge. They were meant to be going to Indonesia but a war broke out so they went to Malaysia. They went to a part of the country where it wasn't very inhabited and Nick managed to dislocate his shoulder. He'd already dislocated it before but they were up a big hill in the jungle. He had a teacher with him and they had two guides with them and about 13-14 boys and girls and Nick was one of the younger ones. He was 16 and it went up to 18. \
He had to get down but was in a lot of pain. It was a narrow path over roots and through jungle. They started coming down. What they should have done was press the beacon they had for emergency help but they didn't - they thought they could get down. They were descending from the peak - Nick had slipped after they summited. They decided to split up, leaving a guide with the group and Nick, a teacher and the other guide going ahead because they could move faster than the group. Nick was taking painkillers but still in a lot of pain and they got slower and slower. So the teacher stayed with Nick and the guide said \'91I'll go down to base camp and put the alarm out and get help\'92. So he ran off - it was going to take him like 12 hours or something. \
So there's just the teacher and Nick left waiting in the jungle. A rescue helicopter came but because it was jungle they couldn't see them below it. The helicopter came out of Kuala Lumpur which was about a four hour flight. So they didn't have much time for actually searching for them before they had to go back to refuel. They were shouting and screaming and waving, but they couldn't see them. By this time, the guide had got back to them but the helicopter had gone for the day. So they were into the next day. \
It got to their fourth day that Nick's arm had been out. The guide climbed up one of the trees and put a flag up. The next day, the helicopter came and they saw it. They lowered a basket and Nick climbed in. His teacher quickly gave him his passport and thought they would lower the basket for him. Nick got taken up to the helicopter and the helicopter flew away. The teacher starts panicking. \'91Oh, my God, I'm in charge of him. Where's he gone?!\'92 They got down with the guide, back to base camp, but it took them 12 hours and he didn't know what had happened to Nick. \
Nick, meanwhile, had landed on this recreation ground and all the villagers came out to cheer because he'd been in the news. The chief of police came and met Nick when he landed and he was taken by ambulance to the hospital. The Australian couple who ran the World Challenge company knew what had happened and arrived a couple of hours after Nick. They were fantastic and they looked after him. It was only then that we found out what had happened. He had an operation on his arm and was in hospital a couple of days and then this couple Anne and her husband came and got Nick and took him back to their house in Kuala Lumpur where he stayed for a week. They were lovely to him and they took him out and showed him some things because he was only halfway through his holiday adventure. Nick flew home a week early missing the last week just relaxing on the beach.\
He had to come back by himself which was really sad for him. He made all the newspapers - it could have been a disaster. They realised afterwards they should have pressed the button. It turned out that two years earlier a similar thing had happened with a girl and they never found her. It's all your worst nightmares. Luckily we didn't know until they'd got back down to base camp. We left the Isle of Man shortly after that.\
I loved it in the Isle of Man and I had lots of fun over there but my heart is in England. I love to go back to visit - there's some great places and we\'92ve got some lovely friends but it was good coming back home.\
\
\
Chapter Five: Life After The Bank, Grandkids, Present Day\
\
Andy's parents had bought an apartment just outside of Nerja, which is down near Malaga. It's in the Costa del Sol, and we went there when Nick was nine months old for the first holiday. We were delayed three hours for the first flight, but he was a really good baby, and it was easy. We did every summer holiday there until the kids were 10 and 12. We skied in the winter as well but we could only afford to do skiing because we used to go to the apartment in the summer. \
\
When we moved back from the Isle of Man, Nick was 16. We moved back into our house and started an extension. We probably should have moved, but we didn't, we decided to put an extension on. Nick went to the grammar school where he'd already got in before we went to the Isle of Man. Keeley was slightly more difficult because she was at a prep school before. So we tried two schools and we let her choose which one she wanted, which was where my nieces went. She started there and that was all good. We came back in August 2000. I'd broken my leg skiing that year. It was whilst we were living at Great Meadow, so that was quite horrendous. It was a freak accident and Nick was fantastic. He looked after me because Andy would often go away. I couldn't get down the stairs very easily by myself. \
\
Andy was still in the bank for about two years after we came home, but wasn't happy. The bank was changing because he worked for Lloyds and Lloyds took over TSB, whilst we were away. When he came back, it was like TSB had taken over Lloyds and it was really weird. They'd taken on this American woman who'd moved over here, who was his boss. He was used to being his own boss and it really wasn't working out. He decided to take the package they had offered - he\'92d wanted to go out on his own for years to do his own business. \'91What do you think?\'92 he said. So, two children at private schools, I thought \'91Wow\'85\'92 But that\'92s what he did. He took a bit of time deciding and he was given quite a bit of money so it was good to have that to fall back on. It was the rugby world cup in Australia that year and Andy's very much into rugby, so he said, \'91Let's go to Australia for the World Cup.\'92 So we went with his younger brother for three weeks, which was amazing because we went up to Brisbane and stayed with my friend, Juliet, who I hadn\'92t seen properly since she\'92d moved there. I'd never been to Australia. \
\
England got through to the final and we were in Sydney for the match. I remember Johnny Wilkinson kicking the ball over the goal and we all went mad. Our hotel was right down near the bridge. It had a great big foyer and they usually had a pianist there but he\'92d gone to bed. One of the guys in our group said, \'91I can play the piano\'92. So he started playing. Management came over, but they realised that there were too many of us to do anything about it. There were probably 100 of us - Australians as well, and, considering we'd won, they were being very nice to us. \
\
We sang Beatles songs and had drinks and danced. I can remember dancing with this girl who had this fantastic Australian hat on with corks around the brim. We were there till about three o'clock in the morning, and it was still going. We went to bed in the end. We were in Sydney for about nine or ten days so we really got to discover Sydney and the surrounding area.\
\
 Nick had already started at York University. It's a huge thing when they go off and leave home and you take them up to halls. I can remember sobbing. I didn't see him until Christmas. And then of course Keeley two years later. She didn't go straight away because she did a foundation course at Farnham Art College. They came home for holidays, but they both went away straight after graduating - Keeley worked in London. And Nick, he'd met his girlfriend - or his wife - on the first day in university. There was a bit of a mix up with his university accommodation. He was meant to be in halls but he wasn't - he was put in this house, which was still near the university. We walked in and Hannah walked in. We called her Miss Hobnob because she offered us all a Hobnob. Isn't it funny, we didn't know that that was his future-wife. We'd only been there five minutes. And that was it. They didn't start going out for about two months. Her parents lived nearer to London than us, so he went to live with them after uni. He came home for the holidays, and when he was living with Hannah, they used to come for the weekends and things. But Nick and Keeley both went to uni, and that was it. \
\
Andy was gradually building up his business which was hard. He was always good at helping businesses to restructure but he wasn't doing enough so he started working part time for this other guy who had a building company. Andy knew quite a lot about property. This guy had built these flats in Esher and somebody came to look at them and decided to buy all nine of them. They had knocked down two old houses. It's right opposite Sandown Racecourse. It's a lovely position. This guy said he wanted all nine and Andy went, \'91Oh, right, we're actually in the taxi on our way to the airport for a month.\'92 We were going to see Juliet who had moved to New Zealand by then. Andy said, \'91Oh, fantastic, great!\'92 And then to me, \'91That will never happen\'92. But it did. They were buying them for this Russian, Andre, and that was the start of all kinds of things. \
\
His family lived in England in London and his children were at school here. He wanted to invest in England. It was at the time when Russians were being welcomed into London. Andy met him and realised they're very different from us and what they do, the Russians. Andre didn't speak a huge amount of English and Andy certainly didn't speak any Russian. But they started doing a few projects together - Andy was buying him properties. He had a portfolio of properties that were rented out. One day he said, \'91I want to buy a Formula One team.\'92 Andy said, \'91No, you really don't. You just lose money with Formula One teams\'92. But he insisted it was a dream of his and Richard Branson wanted to sell his Virgin Team. So Andy started all the negotiations but they wanted loads of money for it. Millions. Often you buy a Formula One team for a pound these days. Marussia became the main sponsors of the Virgin team and Andy said don't buy it.    I'd been involved in Formula One before because my dad used to be interested and I had a boyfriend that was interested, so it wasn't totally new to me, but behind the scenes was. It was fascinating. \
\
Once somebody knows that you're going to buy a Formula One team everybody wants to know you. You get all these drivers that want to be in Formula One and they cozy up to you. They went to Monaco - the Russians wanted to go. They had a boat there. We were on holiday in Milan - it was 2010 - and Andy said \'91I need to go to Monza\'92 so we all went for the day with two friends which was eye-opening. We actually got chucked out because we didn\'92t have passes for behind the pit lane. It was the end of the race weekend and it was all closing down - they were taking everything apart. We were walking out and suddenly this official saw that our friend Martin didn't have a pass on so he grabbed him. All the fences were coming down. It was right at the end of the weekend and Andy and I didn't have passes on either but he didn't notice that. Andy had his briefcase and looked official and he probably had a team top on and they started marching Andy and Martin out. \
\
So after a while, Andy said \'91No we're not going to buy this team\'92. This had been going backwards and forwards all through 2010 and Andre said \'91No - I'm going to\'92 so he went ahead and did it without Andy. Bought it for however many millions. And then he said, \'91I want you to run it now, Andy.\'92 Andy didn\'92t really know anything about running an F1 team but Andre insisted he was good with people and structure. It needed totally restructuring, which was a nightmare, because they'd only been going a year and they\'92d set up a full team. You can imagine how popular Andy was coming in to be made CEO with nothing at all to do with racing. He didn't go straight in and change everything. But they could see that things were getting checked so there was a little bit of friction around. The first race of the season was in March, the next year, which was in Melbourne. \
\
It was a bit of a hectic time, because Nick got married to Hannah on Sunday 13th March at Great Fosters in Egham. It was a beautiful wedding. Then Andre's son got married in Verona. They took over this huge, beautiful hotel for a week. They got married in one place, and then we had a ball in another place. It was amazing. We missed the first two days because Nick was getting married, so we couldn't possibly go then. So Monday afternoon, we flew to Florence and got there in time for the wedding. We stayed for the rest of the festivities during that week. Then we came back and the next day we went off to Australia for the first race of the season, behind the rest of the team. I'd got suitcases and everything everywhere - it blew my mind really. Melbourne's a fantastic place and still one of my favourites for Formula One. We stayed in a lovely hotel called The Langham in the centre. \
\
Everything was arranged, the cars picking us up, doors opening everywhere - everything. The whole Ferrari team were staying there and everybody was extra charming and nice to us. \
Andy had quite a tough job because this was his first Grand Prix and obviously he'd been working in Banbury, which is where the team were based, and had been changing a few things. That was my first Grand Prix behind the scenes. Juliet came down, she was back in Australia by that time. You don't know what the right thing is to do when you're a wife if you're there. There were other wives there, but they were a bit standoffish to me to begin with. It took me a couple of Grand Prix to sort that out. We had a fantastic time in Australia, then we took a week off and hired a car and went down the Great Ocean Road. That was the start of Formula One. \
\
The next race was Monaco. The year before they'd had this party in Monaco and had a super yacht called the Mac Brew. Things had gone wrong with the boat in Monaco so Captain Gary, who was in charge of the yacht said to Andy, \'91you can have the yacht for four days if you'd like it in August, just have to pay for the food.\'92 So we all trooped off. Nick and Hannah came, Keeley was going out with Dan at the time so they came, and our good friends Colin and Sarah and Martin and Caroline. We all flew out the day before - Easyjet - and stayed in this lovely little hotel. We had a bus coming to pick us up the next morning. \
\
I don't think anybody could quite believe it. I didn\'92t know what the boat looked like - I'd seen a couple of pictures inside of it, but I had no idea. We got to the harbour and the tender came out. We didn't look the part to be going on a super yacht but the crew were fantastic. We all got on one boat and they put the luggage on another. I can remember getting onto the Mac Brew. We were all quiet, we had to take our shoes off. They brought champagne to greet us with little nibbles. And we were all quiet for the first couple of minutes. And then they said, \'91Come around and have a look round and see who's having which cabins\'92. \
\
It was amazing. That's when Nick got engaged, because we cruised around Sardinia and Corsica, and in Corsica, we were in the bay. Andy and I had the master suite, which was fantastic. He had a study, a huge bedroom, a huge bathroom, and a dressing room. We had a level which we all used outside the suite. When the doors were shut, you couldn't hear anything because it was all double glazed. I came out and Colin was sitting there and he said, \'91Did you hear anything just then?\'92 Then Nick came up with Hannah and she said, \'91We're engaged!\'92 He'd decided beforehand, so he'd got this ring in his pocket and was terrified of being stopped going through security, in case he bleeped or something. He took her down to the front of the boat. The crew had cameras everywhere and could see what was happening. The crew made a lovely heart with rose petals on their bed. We had champagne and it was lovely. A great place to propose. He did really well. I'm very proud of my son doing that. \
\
A few days later some of us  got off the boat for an hour in Sardinia, and the sea suddenly got really rough. We were having a coffee and were just going to get back on. when  the crew said, \'91We've got to go now. It's so rough. It's doing something to the anchor\'92. We weren't actually in the harbor. They said they\'92d come back for us and off they shot. This was about half past eleven in the morning. I never got back on board the boat. I'd been really sick the day before as well. We had one credit card between us, but we'd only got off for an hour. We were just in shorts and t-shirts. Sarah had her husband's credit card so we went out for a really nice meal and a walk along the beach. The youngsters went for a swim. \
\
There were three left on the boat - Colin and Martin and Caroline - they didn't want to go shopping. The sea calmed down a bit by early evening so the crew came and picked the others up, Captain Gary said \'91I don't think Trisha should get on because she'll just be sick. It's still pretty horrendous out here.\'92 So Sarah stayed with me. It wasn't even a village, it was just a port. It had two bars and we were going from bar to bar. We had a pizza for dinner because we'd had this lovely meal at lunch and we weren't really hungry. Sarah treated us to a sweatshirt each because it was actually getting quite cold. The others packed our suitcases and they came off to meet us later that night. The coach came and got us at about midnight. That was the beginning of the Mac Brew. The next year, when it was the Monaco Grand Prix, we had  the Mac Brew again. Nick and Keeley and Hannah came with us for the first few days\
\
If there was a Grand Prix starting on a Friday, Andy would go out on a Tuesday like most of the team. Andre paid for the boat. It's in a prime spot in Monaco Harbor for the Grand Prix, you couldn't have a better place. Sometimes Andre would just have the boat so his friends could come on. Andy and I stayed on it, the children went back on Friday morning and that evening there was a big party - the film premiere of Senna. We went to that and then they all came back to our boat after. We had the script writers, the producers of the film who were all really lovely. We had a big party the next day as well and that's when Richard Branson came on  board with Princess Beatrice and his son and daughter and her boyfriend at the time. \
\
It was a different life. You got invited to other yachts for drinks. We had flashy cars to take us everywhere, Mercedes vans with blacked out windows. In Monaco Harbor when it's the Grand Prix you're right next to the other yachts, just a couple of feet so you get to chat to all the other people. Andy had to work, so he would go off in the morning so it was a bit lonely for me sometimes because the boats had to push back at six in the morning, so you had to either get off at six which we never did or you could only get off the boat on the tender. I didn't like to be too much trouble because it was my first year, so it was very nice being on board the boat and just sitting in the harbour watching everything happening. When I did get off I'd go across and see Andy or someone would come and get me. I loved Monaco. I could climb up into the old part of the town and just go off for the day when they weren't racing, when they were racing, I'd stay on the boat and watch. Then there'd be a party on the boat. \
\
We were very lucky because Andy got on well with Captain Gary and at least once a year we got a free cruise. We took friends. Nick and Keeley came one more time. Sometimes it would be out of Nice. We went to San Tropez once which was amazing, moored in a prime spot.  It's very special because you can just sit there in the sunshine or the rain and watch the world go by. That time we had Nicky Lauda in the boat next to us with his family. Getting into Monaco harbour was always great fun because you have a special time slot. There's so many yachts that go in, you're waiting outside and then your boat goes in and everybody's watching everybody else. There were always dinners and parties and different things to go to plus some racing. \
\
I used to go to about eight races a year. And Andy went to a few more, he didn't go to all of them. We always went to Monaco, which was always good fun. There was a lot of money meant to be coming into the team through a Russian oil company, which Andy didn't get involved in, Andre dealt with all of that. Some weird and wonderful people appeared. They built a Russian supercar, which was called Marussia, but it wasn't very good. They didn't have the money in the end. After buying the team, the first two years, it was absolutely flying and there was loads of money. And then Andy was having to scrabble around for money all the time. \
\
We went to Singapore for a night race. We kept on European time because they're eight hours ahead. We all stayed in the same hotel and it would be about three o'clock in the morning so everything was closed but we had room service. So we'd order a burger and chips and a glass of wine and had this most amazing view over the harbour. All the teams stayed on British time so there would be people jogging around the track as it was cool in the evening. It took the hotel a couple of years to get used to this - they would be trying to wake us up at nine am with housekeeping but in the end they opened up the top restaurant with the swimming pool. We'd get back there about one in the morning - if only people had known there were so many F1 stars in this restaurant but it was kept quiet. We'd sit out there and drink and it was a nice temperature by that time as well. There were a couple of embarrassing times when we'd been invited to a party and turned up at the end because they weren\'92t on European time. Early on, we didn't realise that.\
\
We enjoyed our home Grand Prix at Silverstone. There was a lot of entertaining and events to go to. One year, Andr\'e9 hired Althorp House for him and his family and we got invited over after qualifying one Saturday, which was so special. The butler took us around and we went into this long room with all their paintings in - there's some pretty famous paintings there. We had a look at those and had a bit of a walk around before Andr\'e9 arrived. Then we sat down in one of the sitting rooms and had a glass of champagne. Andr\'e9 and Andy needed a sort of catch up and a chat, so I went off and just wandered around the grounds by myself. He was playing snooker with Andre when I got back and invited us to stay for dinner. We had a barbecue in the stables that evening with all his family - his dad and his children and wife and a few hangers on as well - all Russians. It was a very beautiful evening. I was a great Princess Diana fan and to be there where she was buried and wandering around the house by myself was very special. All the family photographs are still there and you're allowed anywhere except this one room with the paintings where you are chaperoned.  \
\
One of our last drivers, Jules Bianchi, was French and he was a lovely chap. He got our first ever points in Monaco, which was hugely exciting. That gives you millions of pounds if you get some points, so it's a huge thing for the team. Andre took us all out. There were about 25 of us who went out for dinner that evening. We only got ninth, but it was the first points and everybody was celebrating. Jules was such a lovely chap. He was sitting across from me. We had these beautiful little Alpine strawberries. They were Jules' favourite. The next Grand Prix was in Japan, and he had a massive accident. That's why now they have the halo. There was a tractor that had been taking another car off the track which should never have been there and it was raining really hard. He came off the track and he went underneath the tractor. He wasn't killed, but he was in a coma for nine months before he finally died. Andy had been there the year before but wasn't there that year. We were watching it at home, it was an early race, like 6am. It was pouring with rain so it was misty and horrible. We knew where Jules was, and he was doing really well, he was destined to be a really great driver. He was on the Ferrari team, but they'd loaned him to us. We suddenly realised that the BBC, or wherever it was at the time, Sky, didn't realise that he was missing, but we did, because obviously that's who we were following, and our other driver was still going round. It took several minutes before they said, \'91There's been an accident\'92. \
\
We had him driving for us, for two years. He was so nice. He was always playing tricks. I remember in Singapore that last time, I was walking along, I'd like to be in the garage watching what was going on. And I was coming out, and suddenly there was this water dripping on me. I looked up and it was Jules. We had a Christmas party and we had a casino and we're playing roulette and I\'92d lost all my chips. So he gave me some of his chips, he was that sort of guy that he always made sure everybody was all right. I felt like he was a son, you get to know people and talk to them. He could have easily been a world champion. He was a great driver. Not with us, but with another team. One of the Ferrari drivers now was his godson. He was actually from Monaco as well, though he was French, he lived in Monaco. \
\
Richard Branson used to pop up every now and again because we were his old team. He was always lovely. I'd heard mixed things about him. In Singapore one year, we had our sponsor's breakfast and he came in. I was with one of our PR guys and he came over and he said, \'91Oh, can I sit with you? And we\'92ll all have breakfast together?\'92\
\
One trip near to Andy's last race, we thought we'd go into Abu Dhabi and so Nick, Keeley and Hannah came with us. You don\'92t really eat dinner till about midnight. It's very beautiful going along the creek with all the lights. Lewis Hamilton's coming along and Keeley said \'91Great! I'm going to get my photograph with him. I said \'91No you can't!\'92 I didn't really want to be seen hovering around the drivers and it was on the Sunday after he'd won but you know what Keeley's like so off she trots. She had a proper pass on. So she wasn't just random. He was really nice. He said yes. She came over and gave me her phone and I couldn't get the damn thing to work. And there he is. He's had a long weekend. It's been really hot, he's tired. And he stands there patiently. I did get a photo of them!\
\
It was a crazy time. But meanwhile Andy was up in Banbury for half the week when we were back in the UK and so it was quite lonely. After a year I started going up to Banbury, we did think about buying a house but we knew it was only going to be short. He was only meant to do it for a year and he ended up doing it for nearly five years. So I used to go with him. I would go up in the afternoon and then we'd have dinner. It was nice, especially one hotel, but we stayed in about three or four. Our favourite,I think it was only a Best Western but it was really nice, they knew us so they used to make sure we had a nice room and they would have a drink ready for us at the bar. If it was winter there was a lovely fire then we'd have dinner. Andy always had to rush off so I would sit there finishing my breakfast and then I\'92d do National Trust houses or go shopping. Stratford upon Avon was half an hour away so there were lots of things to do. Sometimes I\'92d go up for two nights, sometimes just one depending. That was our life for about three years. We got out of the rhythm of normal life. I can remember being up in the room in Banbury. Andy\'92s saying, \'91I need another million by Friday\'92. And then \'91OK, we've got that we can do the next race.\'92 Sometimes we didn't know if we were racing,  the boys and girls had to go out to the races on a Tuesday.\
\
That last year was awful. Jules being killed was the last straw. We did one more race and then they collapsed. They went into administration. Andy had to deal with all of that. I can remember driving him around, whilst we were going to different things, and he was on the phone saying, \'91Yeah, can you get that? Can you get that money?\'92 Huge pressure on him - I had more fun than him really. It was an interesting time - we had some fantastic times but there were some lows like with Jules and there was another driver who was injured. We had a first girl driver. She was a reserve and during practice she came off at Silverstone. She went into the back of the lorry stand and she lost her eye. \
\
It took quite a long time to wind it all up. Grandchildren had started coming along by then. George was born in the middle of the last season and luckily he was born at the weekend when we weren't away anywhere. He was born about a month early. He was so tiny and beautiful. I fell in love with him straight away. Grandchildren are something very special. I was quite lucky because we finished Formula One and then the other grandchildren gradually came along. \
\
Keeley and Brent were married on Saturday, September the 14th, 2019 at Wasing Park. The weather was perfect for the outdoor service and it was truly a beautiful weekend. When Hannah went into labour with Molly, we had George to stay. The next afternoon, we went to visit his new sister in hospital. Molly was very cute. Molly had to go back into hospital again so George came back with me again. George was very happy here, and it didn\'92t phase him when he went in to see his sister. He didn\'92t react at all really. He was only two. Keeley went into labour with Alana one month early. Alana finally arrived by emergency c-section early on the 1st of February. I remember not sleeping at all that night waiting for news, because Brent had told us that she'd needed an emergency c-section, and they were waiting for the doctor. Then we didn't hear anything until about quarter past seven in the morning. I couldn't sleep. And then he finally texted us to say that she'd had the baby and what it was, but he didn't say how Keeley was. We did hear about an hour later that Keeley was all right as well. It's very special when a daughter has a baby. You feel very protective. And I mean, you do with your son, but it's different. We went in to see her at about six o'clock. She was still only a few hours old and she was just tiny and so sweet and holding her, she just wanted to be cuddled. She was very cuddly when she was younger. \
\
After the end of the Formula One team Andy got involved with Xtreme E which are electric SUVs. He's chairman of that. I've been to quite a few of those races, but not in Monaco, it's always in far out places where you have to travel about an hour and a half in a car to a deserted bit of wasteland. It's still lots of fun though. It's some of the same people, I met some new people through that as well. Andy's involved with that at the moment, but that's all about to change after Christmas. It's been electric, but it's going into something else. \
\
This Christmas - 2024 - we aren\'92t hosting for the first time in ages. Nick and Hannah have her family every other year. And I usually have our family every other year. They all came over here last year. So this year, it's Nick hosting them. During Covid, once we had it by ourselves, and had a Zoom call with everybody for about four hours, whilst everyone was opening their presents. So they\'92ll come to us on Boxing Day. Keeley, Brent and Alana too. \
\
During the summer we went to see Andy's younger brother and he said, \'91We're by ourselves for Christmas. Come up and stay with us.\'92 He lives in Wickwar, which is just outside of Bristol. We have a tradition, my mum started it, going to the pantomime on Christmas Eve. I've been doing it since just before we got married so it's a long tradition. We've been married 43 years! So we've been doing it for about 45 years, though we had a bit of a break when the children were tiny. Keeley went to her first pantomime when she was three. We always go on Christmas Eve. Before the children came, we used to go out for dinner afterwards. When you've got children, and grandchildren, and everyone believes, it\'92s magical. Your children then grow up, and then they don't believe and it's slightly different. But you go through that, and then the grandchildren come. And everybody believes for a little while, and it's fantastic. I love Christmas. It's a magical time. My mum has passed that on to me - it\'92s carried through. She always made our Christmases amazing. \
\
My mum died in 2005, when she was pretty fit and healthy. It was when Andy was actually not working quite so much, which was really good for me. She lived two doors down just across the road. She was going on holiday that Friday, and I was taking her to the airport in the afternoon. She rang me up and she said, \'91I'm at the doctors. I wasn't feeling 100%.\'92 She was on blood pressure pills. She was 77 but she looked about 67. She was amazing. Then she said \'91I've had a heart attack. I've got to go to the hospital. Will you come and get me?\'92 I dropped everything and took her. She was fine. She looked really good. I do wonder though, she was great with makeup. She didn't wear loads but just enough and a bit of blusher. The doctor said, \'91You're looking very well Mrs Wales\'92. I wasn't too worried when they put her in the ward, I went off to get some stuff for her and bought it back and she was all right. And then at six in the morning, they rang me up and said, \'91Your mum's had another heart attack, a big heart attack. She's now in the ICU.\'92 I went in and my brother who lived locally at the time came as well. Nick was up in York. We had another call later in the day and they said we're taking her to St George's but unfortunately it was a Saturday. She had a heart attack at the worst possible time. \
\
They blue lighted her to St George\'92s and we went up in the evening and took some more bits that she wanted. She was in a ward - she wasn't in ICU anymore - and they said there's nothing they can do until Monday. We spoke to the nurse who said \'91Oh she's all right\'92 and then early the next morning my brother phoned me and said \'91Mum's had a massive heart attack they've told us we need to go up now.\'92 He picked me up and off we went. We stayed with her all day but she was really out of it. They said \'91The next 24 hours are going to be crucial but she'll need you after that so go home.\'92 We were parked in the hospital car park and it wasn't very far away. We'd been in the car for about five minutes and they phoned my brother again and said \'91Your mum's had another massive heart attack, you need to come in now\'92 but she was dead by the time we got in. \
\
We did see a consultant - by that time it was in the afternoon sometime, maybe evening I can't remember, it all blurs now and it was a long time ago. He said \'91If I'd been here on Saturday we could have put some tubes in\'92. St George's is a big heart and brain hospital - you think that they would have somebody at weekends. You do blame yourself in some ways because you regret and you think we should have been stamping our feet. But they were very calm, the staff were lovely but afterwards you just think \'91If it hadn't have happened on a Friday she could have had something done.\'92 The consultant didn't actually say, \'91we could have saved your mum\'92, but he more or less did. She probably would not have had a good quality of life. I think there was a bit of an inquiry into it. We wanted to know some stuff, but Jonathan and I just decided nothing was going to bring her back. You do wonder, don't get ill on a Friday.\
\
Nick didn't get to see her before she died. But Keeley did. Keeley came to the hospital. She was still living at home. She was at Farnham Art school, which was really nice. Andy was brilliant because we had the house to sell. Mum had a big garden. She loved doing her garden. It was in the summer. I spent loads of hours over there doing her garden because I just wanted to. I needed that time in the garden. She was there still. \
\
She would have loved the grandchildren. But, you know, that's life, isn't it? She always had Nick and Keeley on a Tuesday when they were little - or with me as well, because I didn't work, so I'd come over. She was fantastic with them. And then when my dad died, she used to come and stay or pick them up from school with me even though I wasn't working. She was still a huge part of their lives. And I treasure that. I've been so lucky to have had George, Molly and Alana for the day on Tuesdays, whether it's playing Lego, painting, playing dolls or dressing up and dancing, it's such a special time. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}